# Linux kernel

The Linux kernel is the following as given by Wikipedia:

"The Linux kernel is an open-source monolithic Unix-like computer operating
system kernel. The Linux family of operating systems is based on this kernel and
deployed on both traditional computer systems such as personal computers and
servers, usually in the form of Linux distributions,[9] and on various embedded
devices such as routers, wireless access points, PBXes, set-top boxes, FTA
receivers, smart TVs, PVRs, and NAS appliances. The Android operating system for
tablet computers, smartphones, and smartwatches uses services provided by the
Linux kernel to implement its functionality. While the adoption on desktop
computers is low, Linux-based operating systems dominate nearly every other
segment of computing, from mobile devices to mainframes. As of November 2017,
all of the world's 500 most powerful supercomputers run Linux.[10]

The Linux kernel was conceived and created in 1991 by Linus Torvalds[11] for his
personal computer and with no cross-platform intentions, but has since expanded
to support a huge array of computer architectures, many more than other
operating systems or kernels. Linux rapidly attracted developers and users who
adopted it as the kernel for other free software projects, notably the GNU
Operating System.[12] The Linux kernel has received contributions from nearly
12,000 programmers from more than 1,200 companies, including some of the largest
software and hardware vendors.[13][14]

The Linux kernel API, the application programming interface (API) through which
user programs interact with the kernel, is meant to be very stable and to not
break userspace programs (some programs, such as those with GUIs, rely on other
APIs as well). As part of the kernel's functionality, device drivers control the
hardware; "mainlined" device drivers are also meant to be very stable. However,
the interface between the kernel and loadable kernel modules (LKMs), unlike in
many other kernels and operating systems, is not meant to be very stable by
design.[15]

The Linux kernel, developed by contributors worldwide, is a prominent example of
free and open source software,[16] and it's supported up to six years depending
on version. Day-to-day development discussions take place on the Linux kernel
mailing list (LKML). The Linux kernel is released under the GNU General Public
License version 2 (GPLv2),[6][17] with some firmware images released under
various non-free licenses.[8]"


Further is following defined:

## Loadable kernel modules
It is debated whether loadable kernel modules (LKMs) are to be considered
derivative works under copyright law, and thereby fall under the terms of the
GPL.

Torvalds has stated his belief that LKMs using only a limited, "public" subset
of the kernel interfaces can sometimes be non-derived works, thus allowing some
binary-only drivers and other LKMs that are not licensed under the GPL.[citation
needed] A very good example for this is the usage of dma_buf by the proprietary
Nvidia graphics drivers. dma_buf is a recent kernel feature (like the rest of
the kernel, it is licensed under the GPL) that allows multiple GPUs to quickly
copy data into each other's framebuffers.[45] One possible use case would be
Nvidia Optimus that pairs a fast GPU with an Intel integrated GPU, where the
Nvidia GPU writes into the Intel framebuffer when it is active. But, Nvidia
cannot use this infrastructure because it uses a technical means to enforce the
rule that it can only be used by LKMs that are also GPL. Alan Cox replied on
LKML, rejecting a request from one of their engineers to remove this technical
enforcement from the API.[46] Not all Linux kernel contributors agree with this
interpretation, however, and even Torvalds agrees that many LKMs are clearly
derived works, and indeed he writes that "kernel modules ARE derivative 'by
default'".[47]

On the other hand, Torvalds has also said that "one gray area in particular is
something like a driver that was originally written for another operating system
(i.e. clearly not a derived work of Linux in origin). [...] THAT is a gray area,
and _that_ is the area where I personally believe that some modules may be
considered to not be derived works simply because they weren't designed for
Linux and don't depend on any special Linux behaviour."[48] Proprietary graphics
drivers, in particular, are heavily discussed. Ultimately, it is likely that
such questions can only be resolved by a court.


## Firmware binary blobs
One point of licensing controversy is the use of firmware "binary blobs" in
Linux kernel to support several hardware devices. These files are under a
variety of licenses, out of which many are restrictive and their exact
underlying source code is usually unknown.[8]

In 2002, Richard Stallman stated why, in his point of view, such blobs make the
Linux kernel partially non-free software, and that distributing Linux kernel
"violates the GPL", which requires "complete corresponding source code" to be
available.[7] In 2008, Free Software Foundation Latin America started
Linux-libre as a project that creates a completely free variant of the Linux
kernel without proprietary objects; it is used by certain completely free Linux
distributions, such as those endorsed by the Free Software Foundation, while it
can also be used on most distributions.[49]

On 15 December 2010, the Debian Project announced that the next Debian stable
version "6.0 Squeeze" would come with a kernel "stripped of all non-free
firmware bits".[50] This policy was continued to be applied in later stable
Debian releases.
